{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Matt Valerio\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Email: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:valerio.matt@gmail.com"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
valerio.matt@gmail.com
}}}
\line Phone: +1 614.432.4857\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Professional Summary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Motivated and seasoned technologist with a broad professional background.\u160? Proven ability to dissect and resolve complex business problems.\u160? Practitioner of continuous improvement best practices.\u160? Strong technical leader with a belief in the power of leading by example. Collaborative team builder capable of relating to senior leadership, technical engineers and non-technical stakeholders alike.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Software engineer with strong people and management skills, seeking a lead developer or engineering manager role.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As an engineer I care deeply about quality and precision, not only at the code level but throughout the product. I balance attention to detail with a drive to ship, because a product is only as good as its usefulness to actual people. I enjoy creating lucid user experiences and designing robust software architectures.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As a team leader I bring empathy, solidity, and clarity of communication. I enjoy optimizing processes and refining infrastructure so teams are faced with minimal repetitive load and can focus on high-flying creativity.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 I seek a vibrant environment of innovation, a strong team practicing Agile methodologies, and a culture of excellence. It is more than a day job, it is a platform to make a meaningful contribution at a global scale.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 AWS Certification\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b AWS Certified Developer} - October 2017\line Validation Number: {\i F5N0YZS12N141Z55}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Skills\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Technical Leader\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pragmatic Problem Solver\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Software Architecture\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Team Builder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Relentlessly Persistent\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Software Engineering\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Change Agent\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Technology Evangelist\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Application Delivery\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Work History\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Software Engineer} - July 2018 to Present\line {\i eRetailing Associates}, Columbus Ohio\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Senior member on a cross functional team that supports the business end-to-end\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Transformed shipping into a profit center with a shipping engine that utilizes the UPS, FedEx, DHL, and USPS shipping API\u8217's\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Increased revenues by easing new customer adoption with the end-to-end development of a order import system. This system is leveraged by low cost customer service representatives to import and track orders from disparate customer provided order data\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Improved reliabilty by implementing a regression and integration testing framework using Watir and RSpec\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Daily support of an evolving large scale, AWS based, custom eCommerce system\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Partner} - Oct 2017 to Present\line {\i Hexad LLC}, Columbus Ohio\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed a Vue.js based behavioral health learning meanagement system currently supporting a growing user base\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Auth0 integration providing one-time passwordless authentication and support for any major single sign on provider\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Easy integration and adoption via a standardized configuration for training content and user management\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Ability to traverse markets via plugable training content\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AWS Lambda based serverless back-end\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b National Consulting Director} - Feb 2011 to July 2018\line {\i AdvizeX Technologies}, Columbus Ohio\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Built and managed high performing teams of presales and delivery consultants\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Advised customers on best practices for leveraging technology to solve complicated business problems\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Built and executed go to market strategies\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Built and deliverd cloud focused strategic consulting engagements\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Effectively communicated with sales and technical resources\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Evangelized enterprise technology solutions\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Senior Software Engineer} Aug 2008 to Feb 2011\line {\i Inventive Communications}, Westerville, OH\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Principal} Jan 2001 to Feb 2011\line {\i ConstruXML Ltd}, Columbus, OH\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Migrated large scale CORBA system to a modern service oriented architecture. The migration included implementing an iterative software development process, as well as all the necessary refactoring to go from the fine-grained CORBA interfaces to the more coarse-grained SOA interfaces\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Designed and developed a location-based services platform to allow for the quick and easy deployment of content to mobile users. The platform provides a common set of location-services, custom extension points, and a faceless data broker that facilitates delivery of content to a wide variety of devices and standards\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Designed and developed a J2ME application used to provide driving direction and track field employee locations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed software engineering custom tooling, standards and practices\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Implemented, customized and maintained brand-able system to support the development of advertising campaigns. Subsystems include; asset management, workflow, ticketing, reporting, and a skinnable interface\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Senior Architect} Jan 2003 to April 2005\line {\i Armada Group Inc.} Westerville, OH\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Designed, developed, and managed a SAAS based system for the public safety sector. This system is used by over 35 agencies in multiple states and provides real-time data sharing, document aggregation and management, fingerprint capturing and matching, location based mapping, disparate system integration, intuitive thin client front end, and role based access control\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Designed and Developed systems and processes necessary to gather and process production logs from a large scale distributed system\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Improved system reliability and availability by implementing continuous integration and deployment of a large scale distributed system\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Successfully managed system migration from Cisco Local Directors to Zeus ZXTM 3.0. Environment went from two load-balanced servers to 15 servers grouped in 5 different clusters\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Education\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b The Ohio State University}\line Bachelor of Science in Computer Science\par}
}
